Turtle Crossing Game – Python Project

A fun and challenging arcade-style Turtle Crossing game built in Python using the Turtle graphics module and Object-Oriented Programming (OOP). The player controls a turtle that must cross a busy road while avoiding fast-moving cars. Each level increases the speed of the cars, adding difficulty over time. Developed as part of my #100DaysOfCode challenge.

Features
Player-controlled turtle using keyboard input (W key to move forward)

Randomly generated cars moving horizontally across the screen with varying colors

Progressive difficulty with car speed increasing each level

Collision detection between player and cars, ending the game on impact

Scoreboard tracking the current level and displaying "GAME OVER" upon failure

How It Works
Game window setup with 600x600 pixels and white background.

Player turtle starts at the bottom of the screen and moves upwards on pressing the "W" key.

Cars are randomly generated and move leftwards across the screen at increasing speeds.

The player must avoid collision with cars while trying to reach the top of the screen.

Upon successfully reaching the top (finish line), the level increases, the player's turtle resets, and car speed increases.

Collision with a car ends the game with a "GAME OVER" message.

Getting Started
Ensure Python’s Turtle module is installed (usually included by default).

Save all project files (main.py, player.py, car_manager.py, scoreboard.py) in the same directory.

Run the game script with:

text
python main.py
Use the "W" key to move the turtle forward to cross the road.

Avoid the cars and progress levels to increase difficulty.

Close the window or press exit after the game ends.

What I Practiced & Learned
Breaking down complex tasks into smaller, manageable classes

Using OOP to organize game components like Player, CarManager, and Scoreboard

Handling real-time game updates and collision detection

Increasing game difficulty dynamically with level progression

Managing keyboard input and the Turtle graphics event loop

File Structure
TurtleCrossingGame/
├── main.py
├── player.py
├── car_manager.py
├── scoreboard.py
└── README.md

